THE DECLINE AND FALL

Europe as one great republic, whose various inhabitants have attained
almost the same level of politeness and cultivation. The balance of
power will continue to fluctuate, and the prosperity of our own, or
the neighbouring kingdoms, may be alternately exalted or depressed ;
but these partial events cannot effentially injure our general state of
happiness, the system of arts, and laws, and manners, which so ad-
vantageoussy distinguiffl, above the rest of mankind, the Europeans
and their colonies. The savage nations of the globe are the common
enemies of civilised society3 and we may enquire with anxious cu-
riofity, whether Europe is still threatened with a repetition of those>

calamities, which formerly oppreffed the arms and institutions of
Rome. Perhaps the same reflections will illustrate the fall of that

mighty empire, and explain the probable causes of our actual se·
curity.

I. The Romans were ignorant of the extent of their danger, and
the number of their enemies.' Beyond the Rhine and Danube, the·
northern countries of Europe and Afia were filled with innumerable
tribes of hunters and ssiepherds‚ poor, voracious‚ and. turbulent;
bold in arms, and impatient to ravish the fruits of iudustry. 'The
Barbarian world was agitated by the rap'i'd impulse of war 3 and the
peace of Gaul or— Italy was shaken by the distant revolutions of ’
China.' The Huns, who fied before a victorious enemy, directed
their march towards the> West ; 'and the torrent was swelled by the
gradual aceeffion of captives and allies. The flying tribes> who-
yielded to the Hum, assumed in their turn the* spirit of conquest ς
the endiess column of Barbarians preffed on. the Roman. empire with
accumulated weight3 and, if the foremost were destroyed, the vacant
space was instantly replenished by new affailantst Such formidable
emigrations no longer iffue from the North ; and the long repose,k
which has been imputed to the decrease of population, is the happy

consequence of the progress of arts and agriculture. Instead of some
2. » tude:

